CS300 – Lab 9 Reflection
The author is Alexandre Franz Pries Jr.
priesalexandre@myocu.oak.edu
========================================

Question 1 -bcrypt Salt rounds.
---------------------------------
The second point supporting the use of bcrypt. hash ( password, 10) is cost factor(salt rounds).
It has a control over the number of iterations taken by the algorithm that is 2 n, that is, 10 rounds.
= 1,024 iterations.

One of the factors such as 4 is low, hence, hashing is almost instant, which is fast to the server but not fast enough.
also attack with millions of guesses that an attacker does. The factor of 14 is large 14 Indicates a large mean.
Hashing each requires a significantly longer time and brute-force would become exponentially higher.

Plain SHA- 256 was meant to be fast enough- Billions of hashes per second using current GPUs.
The butterworthshire bcrypt is designed to be slow. Each guess incurs a cost even when there has been a stolen database.
the costly calculation of the same nature, and cracking those thousands of times more difficult than SHA-256.

Question 2 -JWT Payload Design.
---------------------------------
We inject id and email since the server would require the user identification on every request.
This password is never contained since JWTs are signed, but not encrypted - anyone.
the recipient of the message in question is able to decode and read the token. The uncovering of the hash would be a.
direct security leak.

In case a bad user made adjustments to the payload such as altering his/her id to that of an administrator, the
matching signature could no longer take place. The JWT signature is a hash of the message with a crypto-graphic hash.
header and payload with JWT significant of the server with JWT_SECRET. Again replacing a single personality.
checks the signature under consideration. jt.verify reaccommodates the anticipated signature and matches.
it; in case they are not the same, it throws and verifyToken() returns null. Without knowing the
secret, forgery of valid signature by the attacker is not possible.

Question 3 -Middleware Order and next.
-----------------------------------------
When authenticate() sets the user on the request and fails to call next then the request keeps hanging.
Express does not innovate automatically, it waits until the middleware that it is currently using finishes.
make next call/ send a response.

Processes middleware that represents registration order, only on the next is called.
When a middleware provides a response and subsequent in the same response invokes next then one leads to a "Headers already sent"
error - then the right way to do it is to make a reply right away.

Express sends the following when the authenticate calls res.status(401).json(...) is called instead of next.
response immediately. The call to router handler is never made since the reach to the router is terminated by authenticate.
request-response cycle. Here is the gating behavior desirable - unauthenticated requests.
before reaching any business logic are rejected the extent of the business logic.

Suspicion of Question 4 Intentional ambiguity in login()
-----------------------------------------------
Provision of the same null to the return of the user not found and the return of wrong password will avoid a user.
enumeration attack. In case the API responded with varying messages, then an attacker can enquire with.
several emails to know the addresses registered.

The attacker can bypass the two cases by responding to each one in the same manner by using only one generic error response, which is inappropriate credentials.
knows nothing whether an email exists or not. This renders the use of credential stuffing attacks.
even more difficult since the attacker does not know what emails have been eliminated as one of the valid targets.

Question 5 – Stateless Authentication
---------------------------------------
Stateless entails there are no session data in the server. The carrying capacity of the token itself in JWTs is present.
type of information required including all the information required that is, the server need only the secret key to authenticate the signature.
A database location is not necessary with each request hence the system is faster and simpler to scale.

The only problem is that since the server does not store anything, it does not have a list of things to revoke.
JWTs comply with the principal terms and conditions until the time of expiry irrespective of the events following the issuance. If an
account is compromised, the token cannot be deleted it is not recorded on the server.

Two common solutions:
1. Token blocklist (denylist) - keep revoked tokens in some cache such as Redis. The middleware
   compares every token with the blocklist and access is granted. Enables immediate revocation.
2. Short expiration + refresh tokens Sony access tokens have a short lifetime (e.g. 15 min).
   An extended access token releases new access tokens. Managing the refresh token Revoking the refresh token.
   removes the ability of the attacker to renew access once the short time token is expired.